The last topic we're
going to talk about in
TypeScript Fundamentals V3 is
generic scopes and constraints.
So these are some final details I want
to add to the concept of generics, so
you can start to make use of
them in practical applications.
Scopes and constraints have to do with
where you can use type parameters
depending on where they're defined.
And minimum requirements you
can impose on type parameters
such that you can consume
them within your function.
And that will make a little bit more
sense what I mean by that as we get into
that topic.
So again, I want to begin
with a motivating use case,
why would we care about scopes and
constraints?
What would be missing if we
didn't have these things?
So constraints allow us to describe
a minimum requirement for a type param.
And that is important in order
to be able to use, for example,
the things within this list
beyond what we have seen so far.
So we just dealt with this
list to dict function while we
were passed a callback
that's used to generate IDs.
But let's say we were building
something out for a data layer,
where every object that we're working
with has a property on it called ID.
Maybe it's coming from sequel database or
something where there's just
always this primary key.
It's always going to be there, and
we always want to use that as the
mechanism for storing it in dictionary.
Well, we don't need this callback anymore,
but
we do have to define this assumption
about what the bare minimum
requirement for the kinds of things
we expect to be in this list.
We need to define that somewhere.
So let's dig into this.
So the function signature we'd like to
arrive at, we'd like to change from
something like this to something
that kind of looks like this, right?
So, previously,
we kind of had a list of any's here or
some other very specific type, but
we need everything to at least be
an object that has an ID on it.
It's a minimum constraint that we need,
why?
Because as we store items in
the dictionary, we're gonna reach into
this item, and we're gonna retrieve
a property off of it called ID.
We didn't have this requirement with
the first version of this algorithm.
Right up here, we were given a function
that we could use to get these IDs.
Whoever was calling this function,
it was their job to tell us what to do.
We simply just said,
you gave me a callback,
I'm going to use this
item with the callback.
I have my ID, I don't need to
know how this callback works,
you handle that you provide it to me.
Well, now we need to be able to
reach into this, and grab an ID.
So we need everything we
receive to have an ID.
Here's how this would work.
This would be the naive approach
that would fail, right?
If we just tried to say, I have a type
paramater T, I get a list of T's,
effectively this thing becomes pretty
pointless within the function.
So if we look at this, so
I've got my item here,
I've got a T in this callback.
If I try to get an autocomplete on
this thing, there's nothing there for
me to use.
I cannot safely do anything here, why?
Because T could be anything,
it could be a list of nulls.
I can't safely do anything because
there's no minimum requirement for
what kinds of Ts I'm willing to accept.
So we need something better,
we need something that allows
us to always have that ID there.
So what we need to do is
describe this constraint.
And I'm showing you kind of a one
line diff version of the change that
we need to make.
Because it's useful to understand where
the information moves as we start
with the non-generic version of our
function, and move to the generic version.
This here, right,
this is the minimum base class of minimum
constraint we need this
stuff to align with.
It kind of moves into two places here,
one like the array nature of this.
We put that over here, but we've got this
constraint on that type parameter now.
And you might be wondering, are we using
extends again, yet again, right, extends.
What does this have to do with
the extends that I already know about?
Well, it's kind of related,
at least conceptually,
in that when you have a subclass
that extends from a base class,
you're kinda guaranteed to have all
of that base class functionality.
All of the class fields that were there,
all of the methods, and
you might have more.
But at minimum,
you are gonna have everything that
can be expected of the base class.
While here we're saying I
can be given any T, but
it has to at least meet
this base requirement.
That's the best I can do at
helping you at unifying this
concept of extends across
everywhere it's used.
So let's talk about scopes as they
have to do with type parameters.
In the world of variables,
we know that inner scopes can see things
that are available in outer scopes.
For example in here,
I am able to see bowl,
and I'm able to see apple,
I can see both, right?
You can you can see from the inside out,
but
not the outside in type parameters
work a very similar way.
So here we have a higher order function
that's used to create a tuple.
So you give it the first thing
that goes into the tuple, and
then you give it the last thing
that you want to see in the tuple,
just a tuple of size two, right?
So ultimately, what's gonna happen,
if we look at the usage here,
we've got a tupleCreator.
And that returns a function, and
then we finish the tuple
by giving that an argument.
So everything's gonna start with three,
but then it'll finish with null or
finish with this array of numbers.
And I just wanna make it clear that
here you can see we're allowed,
just as in this case above where down
here we can access both fruit and,
sorry, both apple and bowl.
Here, we can access both T and
S because inner scopes
can see outer scopes.
Just be careful you don't make
things too complicated with this.
But a more pragmatic example might be you
have a type parameter that's on a class.
And then you have a method that has
another type parameter of some sort.
So finally,
the last thing I want to leave you with
here are some best practices
around using generics.
So first, make sure you remember that
the point of these type parameters and
of generic types is to relate
multiple things, right?
In the case of our list
to dictionary example,
we're saying the list I'm given
is related to the callback.
They're of the same type,
they both involve a T, right?
And then I returned something that
has a T in it, so they're all linked.
If you're not using a type
parameter more than once,
you can end up casting inadvertently,
basically,
forcing TypeScript to regard something
you have as a different type.
So let's look at this,
let's look at what's going on here.
We've got a function here that says,
return as string.
Shouldn't be called returning a string,
but return as something.
So we give it an argument which
isn't any and it returns a T.
But look, we can give it a window,
and we're gonna be forced to specify
a type parameter explicitly here
because nothing can be inferred here.
We're not like accepting a T,
we're just returning a T.
But effectively, what ends up happening
here is Windows passing straight through.
But we've changed its type to a number,
and
this is should be obvious why
this is dangerous, right?
It's typecasting using
a different mechanism.
And typecasting is typically done with
this as keyword where we're saying,
look, just I know this is a window, but
I want you to regard it as something else.
So when doing a code review, you might
be scanning through to see if someone's
written as, but this is typecasting too.
A single use of a type param,
right, it's only used here.
This will have the same effect,
it's just a harder problem
to catch in a code review.
See two or more times,
that's where you want to use type params.
This here, we call this convenience
casting, and if you're gonna cast,
cast in a way, that is obvious for
code reviewers.
It may be what you want to do, but
you want to have that discussion, and
you want it to be clear that you're
going to change the type of this thing.
So you want to define your type
parameters as simply as possible, and
in a way that allows you to take advantage
of all of the static analysis and
the inference that
TypeScript has to offer.
So in this case, notice that,
sorry, we have two options.
We can either say T is a type, and
that type extends from an array of HasIds,
versus down here we could
say T extends HasId.
And the benefit here is
basically your types are gonna
get a lot dirtier, and
depending see the tool tip here,
it's sort of being inferred differently.
I mean, it's kind of strange, right?
The list is a T,
T extends an array of HasIds,
let's see what the return type is here.
Look at that, look at what
the return type is, it's a has ID or
an undefined, whereas the return
type here, it's a T or undefined.
We've actually lost a type parameter here,
isn't that interesting?
And that's because when the return type is
analyzed, we don't know what T is, right?
This is a list,
all we know is it's at least a HasId,
but the build time analysis
can't figure out what
the return type should be
until it's actually called.
And that is a problem that is why we
have lost the T in the return type here.
So you don't need to understand too
much about why this is bad, but
the best practice is to sort of push your
type parameters down to the lowest level,
the simplest way of
describing them as you can.
And then in your argument list,
of course, you don't have to just
take T straight up as an argument.
You could take an array of Ts, a promise
that resolves to a T, whatever you like.
And there you can see the type checking
will do its job more easily and
more successfully.
And then finally, the last thing I
want to leave you with is don't make
things generic unless there's real value
in doing so premature abstraction is bad.
It makes it hard for
you to understand your own code, and for
others to understand your code.
So just make sure that you
start out with simple things,
and don't get into generic hell,
where everything has 15 type params, and
just becomes hard to even
think about what's going on.
These type parameters should have
a purpose, you should have a small
number of them, and just don't let
the complexity get out of control.